A service is an application running on a computer that performs some useful function for other users or computers. We call these specialized machines that host these useful services "servers" instead of workstations, allowing users to interact with and consume these various services. 

Imagine you have a computer at home. On that computer, you might have various applications or programs installed, like a web browser, a word processor, a media player, and so on. These applications are designed to perform specific tasks or functions that you, as the user, can interact with and use.

Now, in the context of a computer network, there are certain specialized computers, called "servers," that are dedicated to hosting and running specific applications or services. These services are designed to provide useful functions or resources to other users or computers connected to the network.

For example, a web server is a specialized computer that hosts and runs a web server application. This application is designed to receive and respond to requests from web browsers (like the one on your home computer) to deliver web pages and other web-based content. So, when you type a website address into your web browser, you're essentially interacting with and "consuming" the service provided by the web server.

The key difference between a "workstation" (like your home computer) and a "server" is that the server is specifically designed and configured to host and run these specialized services, allowing multiple users or other computers to interact with and consume those services over the network.

Computers are assigned an IP address, which allows them to be uniquely identified and accessible on a network. The services running on these computers may be assigned a port number to make the service accessible. As discussed prior, port numbers range from 1 to 65,535, with the range of well-known ports 1 to 1,023 being reserved for privileged services. Port 0 is a reserved port in TCP/IP networking and is not used in TCP or UDP messages. If anything attempts to bind to port 0 (such as a service), it will bind to the next available port above port 1,024 because port 0 is treated as a "wild card" port.
Lets say we want to do a basic scan to do so we use [[Nmap]].